hey folks it's Stu from Evolution
Unleashed and while open AI sending
shock waves reverberating around the
world yet again and of course we're
talking about Sora their new text to
video model look just yesterday Runway
were in the lead uh the text to video
space hadn't really changed a lot in the
last month and then open AI come out and
just pull the rug under the key players
and completely Le frog them this
represents a massive Leap Forward so you
got to imagine what it's like sitting in
the boardrooms right now uh when you see
what's happening but before we talk
about that and what this move kind of
tells us in the bigger picture about
what open ai's plans are especially when
you think about the trillions of dollars
that try to raise cover that in a moment
but let's go all the way back to
yesterday and see exactly where text to
video was at before this shock wave
from open
AI so here is Sora we'll come check that
in a moment but the first major player
is Runway and they're considered the
leader while they were yesterday in text
to video generation and look I hope my
computer's being nice and smooth I've
got some issues with my Hardware uh but
you know this is a pretty good video
that was pretty much where it's at
notice you can only get four seconds so
you're stuck with 4 second plus 4 second
plus 4 second clip so it can get a bit
much but it's still pretty incredible
the backgrounds are sort of solid not
moving too much but you know that's
where we're at and you can see there's
some other ones here you know some
pretty cool
stuff then the other big players pabs so
here they are with their uh let's see if
we can get that to Loop Tex to uh video
animation and you can see it's it's okay
bit of movement you know hear some more
stuff from them this is uh actually some
pretty cool stuff so you can see it's
not terrible right there's some pretty
nice stuff there's pretty vivid uh very
cool animations here from P Labs but
again it's all restricted to 4sec clips
and there's a lot more of the motion is
zooming in and out rather than actually
the scene moving so
what's um going to happen for Mid
Journey now as well so five weeks ago
what January the 3rd six weeks ago they
leaped into AI video creation started
off the new year and said we're going to
start training on video it'll be part of
our version six point whatever and we
expect to release a product in a few
months well can you imagine their
boardroom today when they wake up to
this from open Ai and look I hope the
video is good it is very smooth what I'm
looking at she's got a real nice Swagger
going on there the backgrounds are
incredible it's pretty realistic and you
can see see the prompt they've got down
here if you're interested um you know
very similar to prompting uh text to uh
image generators so yeah not only do we
have this very realistic scene and it's
not just a camera panning in an out it's
actually just following her as she walks
uh it's more than 4 seconds so you can
get up to 60 seconds which is Mammoth
and if you just saw that you can even
have scene changes all from within that
one prompt as it runs so this is pretty
incredible we'll check out another
couple of these um let's have a look at
their animation this one is incredible
okay the Flame's not working
uh but look at the reflection in his
eyes such amazing movement very very
cool and then we check out you know this
kind of scene I mean if you saw this
folks you're not going to go oh wow
that's fake it's AI generated it's
absolutely incredible so with open AI
sort of firing this massive shot
unexpectedly into next to video and
literally leap frogging Everybody by a
significant margin how much compute
power do they have how powerful are the
models they have if they can just go
that fast anyway what does it tell us
about what open I are doing well it's
pretty clear when they launched chat GPT
that they wanted to build a productivity
tool that does everything so they
Incorporated D so not only could you
generate text you could generate image
so it's a natural step to include video
in chat GPT so you'll have all of that
content creation ability and
productivity and honestly if you're in
the Sass space right now I'd be very
worried because you can go to
bed one night and everything's Rosy your
business is growing you're adding
subscribers or whatever it is to your AI
product built on top of these models and
then you wake up the next day and open
AI or somebody else has just completely
blown you away by incorporating into
their product and what do you know H
they've got the user base you don't
you're out of business goodbye don't
believe me talk to Jasper you know they
were the first to do uh copywriting and
now cat GPD came along and wiped them
off the planet they're still there but
they're a shell of their former sales so
it's pretty tough uh to build in the AI
space right now obsolesence become the
the fear of just being leap frogged by a
competitor is absolutely incredible can
you imagine the discussions in P labs
Runway right now they don't have the
resources that open AI have they don't
have the compute power that open AI have
and they probably don't have the power
of models that open AI are deploying so
what we're really seeing if you take it
into the context of what else we're
hearing from open AI hey let's raise
trillions of dollars so we can yeah
build a Data Center and some chips and
stuff and stuff and whatever that is
they want to control they want to build
their own AI that will serve all of
humans and do everything ass this data
goal with AGI generative intelligence it
can do everything a human can do
intellectually uh and they're getting
there and I think chat GPT will be the
platform they build that into and it's
going to be very hard to compete with
that folks if you're in uh generating
video content anything like that so open
AI are really signaling they want to
dominate AI they want to be at the top
of the pyramid and they want to win the
battle and dominate the world and who's
regulating open AI right now oh nobody
so you know we are going head long at
very rapid Pace folks into what is uh
the unknown we're going to have this
explosion of content creation uh these
tools are already being used maliciously
um you know State actors being found to
be creating troll Farm material using
Gemini um you know an open AI chat GPT
You've Got Deep fakes fake president
call saying don't vote you know and
we're only at the the very beginning of
what is going to be an explosion
especially as the tools like text to
video improve to the levels that open AI
showed us today
mindblowing so folks you know I don't
have the answers for What's coming but I
do know that to best be prepared I want
to make sure that I've got my eyes on AI
I can see where things are going and I'm
building in a way that sort of avoids
the obsolesence that's going to hit so
many people so folks look we'll talk
more about that in the next video I just
wanted to do a quick one today to finish
out the week uh of daily videos and just
sit back and take in what open AI are
doing what that represents in terms of
Direction they're going uh you know they
raiseed trillions of dollars to build
their own AI super
AI uh Data Center and then they put
their AGI when they get there or their
gp5 or whatever the next model is into
this massive computer and itself
learning folks open AI are winning the
race and people thought Google were
catching up with Gemini and you know
yesterday you might forgotten already
but they announced 1 million uh context
token limits for their new Pro 1.5 so
they bought out Pro then they built out
Ultra and then they turned it to
Advanced and now they've got Pro 1.5
that has the million context token
limits but of course then naming
conventions just make no sense to me uh
but anyway uh they've been leap frogged
as well because Sam mman has said
publicly that they are going to
introduce 1 million token limits this
year likely in GPT 5 and with the way
the rumor Mill's going at the moment um
sounds like GPT 5 isn't far away when
you've seen the rumor mill go like this
before GPT 4 before 3.5 you know you've
seen similar kind of uh hype Cycles so I
think we are Hing into GPT 5 and who
knows where that's going to take us cuz
I can tell you with what open II are
able to achieve they must have something
pretty powerful in the background and
because they don't have the safety
limits on there uh they're not obviously
we can't use it but wouldn't it be
amazing just to spend a day in their lab
play with their toys but anyway folks
that's the news today massive shifts in
not just AI content generation but in
terms of what open AI are encapsulating
and doing right before our eyes
fascinating times we live in have a
great weekend we'll see you Monday with
the next video peace